README.md, before:

# Almost Anyone

This rails app is a two sided marketplace that allows the users to act as both 'Tour Agent' and 'Promoter'.

As a MVP the app will ...

Minor version updates will add features such as ...

Major version updates will ....
___
## Gems

[devise](https://github.com/plataformatec/devise)

[rspec](https://github.com/rspec/rspec-rails)

[shrine](https://github.com/janko-m/shrine)

[aws](https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-ruby)

[stripe](https://github.com/stripe/stripe-ruby)

[mail gun](https://github.com/mailgun/mailgun-ruby)

[impressionist](https://github.com/charlotte-ruby/impressionist)

[scoped_search](https://github.com/wvanbergen/scoped_search)

[guard-livereload](https://github.com/guard/guard-livereload)

[discogs-wrapper](https://github.com/buntine/discogs)

[cloudinary](https://cloudinary.com//documentation/rails_integration)

## Elements


## Getting Started

```
rails new almost-anyone --skip test -d postgresql
```

1. **install devise** - using the Github guide
1. **install shrine** - using Github guide
  * **link ASW**
  * create profile scaffold

```
rails g scaffold Profile user:reference brand:string  location:string phone_number:string image_data:text bio:text
```
1. **install rspec** - using Github guide
1. add first_name & last_name to User model with devise registration [github guide](https://github.com/plataformatec/devise/wiki/How-To:-Allow-users-to-sign-in-using-their-username-or-email-address)
1. create Tour scaffold

```
rails g scaffold Tour user:reference title:string  description:text country:string image_data:text bio:text start_date:timestamp end_date:timestamp min_cost:integer max_cost:integer

rails db:migrate

```
1. create genre table.

```
rails g model Genre name
rails db:migrate

rails g migration CreateJoinTableProfileGenre profile genre
rails g migration CreateJoinTableTourGenre tour genre
```
then add below to the form

```
<div class="field">
  <%= form.label :genres %>
  <%= form.collection_select(:genres, Genre.order(:name),:id,:name,{}, {multiple: true, include_blank: false}) %>
</div>
```
Now the form will look to the Genres to find the selection and send the :id and :name to the controller in the *weak* params. After the new Tour or Profile is made add the below code to link the genres via the join table.

```
temp_genres = params[:tour][:genres]
temp_genres.each{|genre_id|
  @tour.genres << Genre.find(genre_id) unless genre_id.blank?
}
```
### Calendar Model

The custom calendar model uses a number of methods to display the Tour date range as either a week summary or total days, it also displays the booked days

**Calendar.new(start_date, end_date)** - Creates a new calendar object with

##### *methods*

**createCalendar**  - creates a calendar array stored as @cal

**bookDays(*days)** - alters the @cal array to include true and false (available and booked) booleans

**displayCalendar** - outputs the @cal array as html for the calendar Sunday to Monday, with project css appropriate class tags (note: that .html_safe rails method needs to be added)

**displayWeek**     - outputs the @cal array as html for the week Sunday to Thursday, Friday, Saturday, with project css appropriate class tags (note: that .html_safe rails method needs to be added). These with entertainment bookings the most common day to book is Fridays and Saturdays.

Add Stripe

[stripe guide](https://stripe.com/docs/checkout/rails)
]
*to be continued*

### bookings

First the user must request a Booking with a Offer.
```
rails g scaffold Offer tour:references user:references date:date price:integer location:string

rails g scaffold Booking tour:references date:date
rails db:migrate
```
Now take the Offer form and make a partial copy in the views/tour then in tour/show.html.erb add a render to that partial. Change the form to have a hidden_field for the tour_id input and pass the tour_id into the partial and modify the date input (see bugs and fixes).


### Make the rating model

ratyrate gem

in ```db/migrate/<the new migration> ``` add default to 0 to score ```t.integer :score, default: 0```

Follow the guide on ratyrate..
The gem is optimised for rails 4 which creates some Bugs
Firstly, rails 5 doesnt have jQuery pre-installed.
```
gem 'jquery-rails', '~> 4.3', '>= 4.3.1'
```
Secondly, add [5.1] after the migrations names. . .
Thirdly, the images might be in a weird spot.

Then it kinda just works..

### impressionist

```
rails g impressionist
```
then add [5.1] after ActiveRecords
```
 rails db:migrate
```
add to desired controller (Tours in this case), and indicate the action(or leave off for whole controller).
```ruby
class ToursController < ApplicationController
impressionist :actions=>[:show]
end
```
make the model impressionable
```ruby
class Tour < ApplicationRecord
is_impressionable
end
```
Now the impressions can be counted by
```ruby
@tour.impressionist_count
```
Easy a that and it worked first time.

### Cloudinary

Before posting on Heroku i need cloud storage for my tour and profile images. And it need to integrate with shrine. [shrine-cloudinary guide](https://github.com/janko-m/shrine-cloudinary)
```
gem "clourinary"
gem 'shrine-cloudinary'
```
Just change the shrine initializer and set up the .env file.



### forms

 [Using Ajax](https://launchschool.com/blog/the-detailed-guide-on-how-ajax-works-with-ruby-on-rails)

This will create a form that will got the new action of offer
 ```
<%= form_with url: new_offer_path, method: "get", remote: true%>
 ```
This tell rails to load the new.js.erb file when the new action is fired.

```ruby
def new
  respond_to :js
end
```
```js
document.getElementById....render_form
```
```ruby
def create
  @task = Task.new(name: params[:name])
  if @task.save
    @tasks = Task.all
    respond_to :js
  end
end
```






```
<!-- below is a way to get a searchable dropdown menu-->
      <!-- <div class="field">
        <input type=text list=browsers name="genre">
          <datalist id=browsers >
            <%Genre.all.each do |g|%>
             <option> <%=g.name%>
            <%end%>
          </datalist>
      </div> -->
```



### Bugs and Fixes

* Tour index page faults when Tour is created and no profile created. ```<%=tour.user.profile.brand%>``` **fix** forcing the user to create a profile on sign up and removing any seed data that was made without a seed profile.

* Date selecting for offer dates and booking dates are not restricted to the Tour dates. **fix**```<%= form.date_select :date, start_year:  @tour.start_date.year, end_year:  @tour.start_date.year ``` => will restrict the year to only the Tour years, However there is **not** a way to restrict the days and months to only show the ranged date. The most commonly suggested fix is to use a jQuery date picker calendar.

However, validators are added to the Models preventing input dates outside of the Tour dates.



## Running the tests

Testing was a issue to due lack of time to learn Rspec.
However when developing the Calendar model I tested constantly using a simple method of writing out the desired outcome and then check it against my actual outcome, if they were the same it passed true and i knew the my test had past.  
Of the rSpec testing completed I ran into a number of problems for getting my tests past the validations that wrote. 

### Break down into end to end tests

Explain what these tests test and why

```
Give an example
```

### And coding style tests

Explain what these tests test and why

```
```

## Deployment

Useful commands

```
git remote -v

heroku logs -t

heroku apps

heroku run rails c --app name

heroku pg:psql --app almost-anyone

heroku run bash

heroku pg:backups --app name
heroku pg:backups:capture --app name

heroku run rake db:migrate:status --app name
heroku run rake db:migrate:redo VERSION=<id from previous command> --app name
```

### Heroku

* deployment must be uniquely name across the whole system
* uses build packs to automatically deploy
* having ruby version in your gem file is a good idea (not vital)
* brew install Heroku (for the command line Heroku interface. )


1. git remote add demo https://git.heroku.com/*name*.git
1. git push demo master *(this will upload the delpoyment)*
1. heroku logs -t --app *name*
1. heroku run rake db:migrate --app name


* pushing a branch to heroku ``` git push name branch:master ```
* this may need use to *re-write history* ``` git push -f name branch:master ``` **THIS IS A TERRIBLE IDEA IN A TEAM ENV**... but individually its okay.

==

Commit message:

added some more logic and documentation

README.md, after:

# Almost Anyone

This rails app is a two sided marketplace that allows the users to act as both 'Tour Agent' and 'Promoter'.

As a MVP the app will ...

Minor version updates will add features such as ...

Major version updates will ....
___
## Gems

[devise](https://github.com/plataformatec/devise)

[rspec](https://github.com/rspec/rspec-rails)

[shrine](https://github.com/janko-m/shrine)

[aws](https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-ruby)

[stripe](https://github.com/stripe/stripe-ruby)

[mail gun](https://github.com/mailgun/mailgun-ruby)

[impressionist](https://github.com/charlotte-ruby/impressionist)

[scoped_search](https://github.com/wvanbergen/scoped_search)

[guard-livereload](https://github.com/guard/guard-livereload)

[discogs-wrapper](https://github.com/buntine/discogs)

[cloudinary](https://cloudinary.com//documentation/rails_integration)

## Elements


## Getting Started

```
rails new almost-anyone --skip test -d postgresql
```

1. **install devise** - using the Github guide
1. **install shrine** - using Github guide
  * **link ASW**
  * create profile scaffold

```
rails g scaffold Profile user:reference brand:string  location:string phone_number:string image_data:text bio:text
```
1. **install rspec** - using Github guide
1. add first_name & last_name to User model with devise registration [github guide](https://github.com/plataformatec/devise/wiki/How-To:-Allow-users-to-sign-in-using-their-username-or-email-address)
1. create Tour scaffold

```
rails g scaffold Tour user:reference title:string  description:text country:string image_data:text bio:text start_date:timestamp end_date:timestamp min_cost:integer max_cost:integer

rails db:migrate

```
1. create genre table.

```
rails g model Genre name
rails db:migrate

rails g migration CreateJoinTableProfileGenre profile genre
rails g migration CreateJoinTableTourGenre tour genre
```
then add below to the form

```
<div class="field">
  <%= form.label :genres %>
  <%= form.collection_select(:genres, Genre.order(:name),:id,:name,{}, {multiple: true, include_blank: false}) %>
</div>
```
Now the form will look to the Genres to find the selection and send the :id and :name to the controller in the *weak* params. After the new Tour or Profile is made add the below code to link the genres via the join table.

```
temp_genres = params[:tour][:genres]
temp_genres.each{|genre_id|
  @tour.genres << Genre.find(genre_id) unless genre_id.blank?
}
```
### Calendar Model

The custom calendar model uses a number of methods to display the Tour date range as either a week summary or total days, it also displays the booked days

**Calendar.new(start_date, end_date)** - Creates a new calendar object with

##### *methods*

**createCalendar**  - creates a calendar array stored as @cal

**bookDays(*days)** - alters the @cal array to include true and false (available and booked) booleans

**displayCalendar** - outputs the @cal array as html for the calendar Sunday to Monday, with project css appropriate class tags (note: that .html_safe rails method needs to be added)

**displayWeek**     - outputs the @cal array as html for the week Sunday to Thursday, Friday, Saturday, with project css appropriate class tags (note: that .html_safe rails method needs to be added). These with entertainment bookings the most common day to book is Fridays and Saturdays.

Add Stripe

[stripe guide](https://stripe.com/docs/checkout/rails)
]
*to be continued*

### bookings

First the user must request a Booking with a Offer.
```
rails g scaffold Offer tour:references user:references date:date price:integer location:string

rails g scaffold Booking tour:references date:date
rails db:migrate
```
Now take the Offer form and make a partial copy in the views/tour then in tour/show.html.erb add a render to that partial. Change the form to have a hidden_field for the tour_id input and pass the tour_id into the partial and modify the date input (see bugs and fixes).


### Make the rating model

ratyrate gem

in ```db/migrate/<the new migration> ``` add default to 0 to score ```t.integer :score, default: 0```

Follow the guide on ratyrate..
The gem is optimised for rails 4 which creates some Bugs
Firstly, rails 5 doesnt have jQuery pre-installed.
```
gem 'jquery-rails', '~> 4.3', '>= 4.3.1'
```
Secondly, add [5.1] after the migrations names. . .
Thirdly, the images might be in a weird spot.

Then it kinda just works..

### impressionist

```
rails g impressionist
```
then add [5.1] after ActiveRecords
```
 rails db:migrate
```
add to desired controller (Tours in this case), and indicate the action(or leave off for whole controller).
```ruby
class ToursController < ApplicationController
impressionist :actions=>[:show]
end
```
make the model impressionable
```ruby
class Tour < ApplicationRecord
is_impressionable
end
```
Now the impressions can be counted by
```ruby
@tour.impressionist_count
```
Easy a that and it worked first time.

### Cloudinary

Before posting on Heroku i need cloud storage for my tour and profile images. And it need to integrate with shrine. [shrine-cloudinary guide](https://github.com/janko-m/shrine-cloudinary)
```
gem "clourinary"
gem 'shrine-cloudinary'
```
Just change the shrine initializer and set up the .env file.

### offers

The offers have a fair amount of logic and styling in them

##### login

##### styling


### forms

 [Using Ajax](https://launchschool.com/blog/the-detailed-guide-on-how-ajax-works-with-ruby-on-rails)

This will create a form that will got the new action of offer
 ```
<%= form_with url: new_offer_path, method: "get", remote: true%>
 ```
This tell rails to load the new.js.erb file when the new action is fired.

```ruby
def new
  respond_to :js
end
```
```js
document.getElementById....render_form
```
```ruby
def create
  @task = Task.new(name: params[:name])
  if @task.save
    @tasks = Task.all
    respond_to :js
  end
end
```






```
<!-- below is a way to get a searchable dropdown menu-->
      <!-- <div class="field">
        <input type=text list=browsers name="genre">
          <datalist id=browsers >
            <%Genre.all.each do |g|%>
             <option> <%=g.name%>
            <%end%>
          </datalist>
      </div> -->
```



### Bugs and Fixes

* Tour index page faults when Tour is created and no profile created. ```<%=tour.user.profile.brand%>``` **fix** forcing the user to create a profile on sign up and removing any seed data that was made without a seed profile.

* Date selecting for offer dates and booking dates are not restricted to the Tour dates. **fix**```<%= form.date_select :date, start_year:  @tour.start_date.year, end_year:  @tour.start_date.year ``` => will restrict the year to only the Tour years, However there is **not** a way to restrict the days and months to only show the ranged date. The most commonly suggested fix is to use a jQuery date picker calendar.

However, validators are added to the Models preventing input dates outside of the Tour dates.



## Running the tests

Testing was a issue to due lack of time to learn Rspec.
However when developing the Calendar model I tested constantly using a simple method of writing out the desired outcome and then check it against my actual outcome, if they were the same it passed true and i knew the my test had past.  
Of the rSpec testing completed I ran into a number of problems for getting my tests past the validations that wrote.

### Break down into end to end tests

Explain what these tests test and why

```
Give an example
```

### And coding style tests

Explain what these tests test and why

```
```

## Deployment

Useful commands

```
git remote -v

heroku logs -t

heroku apps

heroku run rails c --app name

heroku pg:psql --app almost-anyone

heroku run bash

heroku pg:backups --app name
heroku pg:backups:capture --app name

heroku run rake db:migrate:status --app name
heroku run rake db:migrate:redo VERSION=<id from previous command> --app name
```

### Heroku

* deployment must be uniquely name across the whole system
* uses build packs to automatically deploy
* having ruby version in your gem file is a good idea (not vital)
* brew install Heroku (for the command line Heroku interface. )


1. git remote add demo https://git.heroku.com/*name*.git
1. git push demo master *(this will upload the delpoyment)*
1. heroku logs -t --app *name*
1. heroku run rake db:migrate --app name


* pushing a branch to heroku ``` git push name branch:master ```
* this may need use to *re-write history* ``` git push -f name branch:master ``` **THIS IS A TERRIBLE IDEA IN A TEAM ENV**... but individually its okay.

==
